hey how's it going Dave TD here so we've
seen a lot of gaming laptops on this
channel big ones little ones expensive
ones less expensive ones but usually
they fall into two kind of main
categories cheaper ones that are bigger
thicker less nice-looking and more
expensive ones that look better but that
price tag is invariably higher this is
the légion y5 30 from Lenovo and its
main strength is the design it's one of
the best looking devices you're going to
get for this kind of money at least for
a gaming laptop so the big draw the big
thing that makes it special is the bezel
on the screen it's very thin and it
reminds me of much more expensive
laptops so the XPS 15 was probably one
of the first 15-inch laptops use a thin
bezel like this but a lot of the gaming
laptops nowadays or whatever there's a
lot more going outside a lot of gaming
laptops these days are going with bigger
screens with thin bezels and it looks
nice so the main advantage of having a
thin bezel isn't just for the fact that
it's a thin bezel device right obviously
it looks good but it also makes the
whole device smaller right when you have
less bezel that means the footprint of
the whole device is smaller so it's just
a more portable and more compact device
and this looks really good
the design of this thing on the exterior
is a much more muted look than we
traditionally see from Lenovo Lenovo was
like one of the bigger companies with
like the red and black thing going on
they just loved that they played it out
for several years this is all black this
year not a single drop of red not even
red LED if I'm not mistaken yeah there
isn't even a red LED the only lighting
you'll have up front is this little
light on the légion logo which lights up
when the laptop is on it's a simple
white light you can't change any of the
RGB or anything is just white and I
think it looks good the top surface is
this kind of textured plastic it's
basically a radial pattern that
originates from the Oh from the légion
and it just spreads out it's a pretty
durable finish up top I thought I might
scuff easily because of that texture but
took some keys to it tried to scratch a
little bit stay solid the build quality
in here it feels good it's not amazing
or anything it is a predominantly
plastic laptop I wouldn't say that it's
bad like nothing kind of strikes me as
being
like an issue or anything like that I
like the hinge that they're using some
of the older lenovo laptops had a really
bad hinge design this is a good one and
it feels like it just feels well-made
I'm surprised that they changed the
design of this laptop so drastically
from the previous year like this looks
nothing like the original lenovo y
series gaming laptop so it looks
completely different and I like it it's
just improved across the board the other
thing and you'll see that I'm doing this
in the video I'm pulling the screen all
the way back repeatedly and it's just
the screen go all the way flat and
they're able to do this because we'll
the hinge design for one but if you'll
notice the back of the laptop extends a
little bit beyond the base of the screen
and it's a design element that usually
helps with improving the thermals on a
laptop the ports are on the back of the
device at least most of them there's
still an audio jack and a usb on each
side but the main cluster of ports is on
the back and I really like that it's
obviously a personal preference but I
like to have all of my connections like
the AC adapter and he's like the USB C
or Ethernet I like it when it's on the
back of the device just out of the way
and this allows you to do that I don't
like how the USB see isn't Thunderbolt 3
capable it's kind of expected at this
price point but still disappointing
inside the device we're looking at a
keyboard deck that has a soft touch
material everywhere I've talked about
this in my previous videos but it's a
nice material at first but I've always
worried about long-term use this stuff
can get gunky now that being said I have
seen brands like I have seen products
where the soft touch material has held
up over time but it's not something that
I can tell based on just a short
experience like this the keyboard itself
is good and I like how they've done the
layout so on a traditional laptop you're
either gonna have a spacious keyboard
that doesn't have a number pad or a
cramped keyboard with a number-pad but
they've done something quite different
they have their regular layout and it's
spacious
but their number pad is actually above
the arrow keys so they've actually made
a really good use of this it's a
different layout than a lot of other
keyboards but I think it'll get used to
it
the only concern is that if you're
someone that uses a number pad a lot
this is a different kind of like your
muscle-memory will be different on this
number pad than the traditional number
pad trackpad the great trackpad
it's got hardware buttons like dedicated
Hardware buttons which is not common
these days I like them windows precision
great tracking the only thing I have to
complain about is that the button
mechanism is quite loud
alright let's talk about the speakers
they sound good and they're positioned
well they're in this kind of tucked
beveled area up front the base isn't
great like the lower frequencies just
aren't represented well in this device I
don't expect it considering the price
and considering the fact that it's a
laptop but if you want a bass it's not
really there okay to get inside this
laptop it's relatively easy you do have
to struggle with the tabs a little bit
on the bottom it's just a bunch of
screws and they come off easily but you
just got to be careful opening it
because there are plastic tabs that hold
it in place once you're inside you have
access to everything you have your Wi-Fi
card you can swap out your two RAM slots
there's two Drive slots there's an nvme
and there's two and a half inch SATA you
also have access to your battery it's a
fifty two and a half watt hour battery
it's not particularly large it's
actually relatively small and battery
life on this thing is only four hours a
little bit more than four hours and
that's what screen to 215 it's so yeah a
lot of devices like this we're gonna
have shorter battery lives but this is
actually one of the shorter ones that's
what you get for our battery you're
gonna have to bring your AC adapter if
you wanna bring this thing to class or
whatever because you're not gonna go
through a day on four hours of battery
life okay last thing the screen this is
the money the design of the screen is
through so the best part of this laptop
and it makes it look like a much more
expensive device than it actually is
it's reasonably color accurate it's
definitely good enough for games but I
wish it was brighter if you're playing
in a more lit environment it might be
difficult to use this screen the webcams
down on the bottom underneath the screen
and well it's a nose cam this device
comes in a few configurations you get a
gtx 1050 or a 1050 TI this one's a 1050
Ti and the performance is good but
you're not gonna get anything
mind-blowing you're gonna be able to
play most Triple A games near 60 frames
per second but you're gonna have to play
with that graphics quality slider a bit
the thermals on this device are good it
doesn't throttle and the fans aren't
super loud even on max load it's not
crazy loud or anything I do like that
they're soft for control of the fan so
if you want to you can put on the
maximum fan mode and just let it rip and
I'm really happy that lenovo was able to
make something that looks like this in a
thermally appropriate chassis like
that's not easy I think a lot of
companies try and just don't have great
thermals and don't really care about it
but they did a good job now
it's not a particularly powerful card it
is a 1050 TI I would have really liked
to have seen a 10 60 or at least a 10 60
max cube because I feel like the chassis
could handle it the thermals are good
enough it's just they don't offer that
option it just doesn't make sense to me
especially because there's a 144 Hertz
screen option like they have a high
refresh screen available but I'm not a
particularly powerful GPU available so
that debt that combination doesn't
really work for me maybe in the future
they'll add more powerful GPU options
other things I don't like the screen and
wish it was brighter but at this price
point it's tough to get a really bright
screen and the third thing is the
battery life a 4 hour battery life like
I mentioned isn't a full day battery so
yeah those are the only real negatives
about this whole product I like it a lot
they've done a good job with it again
the big thing about this thing though is
the design it's thinner than your
average $950 gaming laptop and I think
on sale this is gonna be even cheaper
like during Black Friday or like the end
of the summer I could see this thing
going to like 850 or like 900 so yeah
overall great device I think lenovo
really knocked this one out of the park
it's rare for a company to make
something that looks this good at this
price point ok I hope you guys enjoyed
this video thumbs we liked it subs you
loved it I'll see you guys next time
you
[Music]